# commandments

* Organize your research project in experiments, each experiment answering one question. This may seem straightforward when doing empirical research, because of data limitation, but it becomes much less trivial when we deal with theory or simulations. Say you have a model: you are not going to understand everything that happens in it with a single simulation. You may have to run a simulation, then find something interesting, then want to run many replicates to confirm your intuition, then run another set where your increase the resolution, or run another one where you turn off a parameter to see if it has an effect, etc. All this to get a better and better understanding of what is happening. Each round of this process is the same essentially: (1) ask a question, (2) run the simulations or the experiment (hence the name) needed to answer it, (3) make plots or analyze the results and come up with a conclusion. This is why I find it useful to organize the project into successive experiments. Plus, the conclusion of one experiment will certainly bring up new questions, motivating the next experiment. So, the order of the experiments matter! It represents the order of the questions you have been asking yourself to reach an understanding of your model. And this progressive construction of your understanding is important to keep track of, otherwise it gets nearly impossible to navigate the sea of things to plot about your model or answer the question "okay, what do I do now?" as the complexity of the model increases. Does not mean that the paper needs to follow your chronological reasoning of course. It is basically a lab notebook summing up what you've done and how you got where you are. Also useful to identify loose ends to tie.